Modify rule S5131(C#): Education Framework (#945)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5131/csharp/razor/rule.adoc

@ViewData["ThirdPartyHtml"]   @* Noncompliant *@
@Html.Raw(ViewData["ThirdPartyString"]) @* Noncompliant *@
@Html.Raw(ViewBag.ThirdPartyString) @* Noncompliant *@

@{
    object thirdPartyObject = ViewBag.ThirdPartyString;
    string thirdPartyString = ViewBag.ThirdPartyString as string;
}
@Html.Raw(thirdPartyObject) @* Noncompliant *@
@thirdPartyObject @* Noncompliant
----

[source,html]
----
@*
    // Code sent to the Razor View
  
    IHtmlContent ThirdPartyHtml;
    string       ThirdPartyString;

    IHtmlContent CleanThirdPartyHtml   = new HtmlString(HTMLEncoder.Encode(ThirdPartyString));
    string       CleanThirdPartyString = HTMLEncoder.Encode(ThirdPartyString);
*@

@Html.Encode(Model.ThirdPartyHtml)

@Model.ThirdPartyString 

@Model.CleanThirdPartyHtml

@Html.Raw(Model.CleanThirdPartyString)   

@{ Output.Write(Model.CleanThirdPartyString); }

@ViewData["ThirdPartyString"] 
@Html.Raw(ViewBag.CleanThirdPartyString)

@{
    object thirdPartyObject = ViewBag.ThirdPartyString; // Value is read from ViewBagAll argument => can cause FP
    string thirdPartyString = ViewBag.ThirdPartyString as string;
}
@thirdPartyString 
----

==== Special Cases

> Note: Including third-party data in Special Razor Form tags is considered safe

Reviewer: Is "Special Razor Form" a name (because of the casing)?

Author: Not at all, thanks for pointing it out
```suggestion
Note: Including third-party data in special Razor form tags is considered safe
```

for some of them:

> * The `asp-route-{value}` attribute is automatically encoded by the Runtime, with the `BeginWriteTagHelperAttribute()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `asp-route-{value}` attribute is automatically encoded by the runtime, with the `BeginWriteTagHelperAttribute()` function.
```

> * HTML Attributes are automatically encoded by the Runtime, with the `AddHtmlAttributeValue()` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HTML Attributes are automatically encoded by the runtime, with the `AddHtmlAttributeValue()` function.
```

== How to fix it?

> include::../../common/fix/intro.adoc[]

Author: to remove

include::../../common/fix/data_encoding.adoc[]

Razor engine auto-escaping only takes care of HTML entity endcoding. It will not prevent XSS if a variable is injected in an unquoted attribute or direcly in a script block.

=== Pitfalls

include::../../common/pitfalls/validation.adoc[]

=== Going the extra mile

include::../../common/extra-mile/csp.adoc[]

:blazor-csps: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/security/content-security-policy?view=aspnetcore-6.0
:aspdotnet-core-middleware: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/middleware/?view=aspnetcore-6.0
:csp-nonces-owin: https://vcsjones.dev/content-security-policy-nonces-in-asp-net-and-owin/

Implementing content security policies differs from one architecture to another.

* When client-side code is processed by Blazor
** {blazor-csps}[the library supports it by default].
* When CSP requirements are low
** {aspdotnet-core-middleware}[the ASP.Net Core Middleware provides header control].
* When code requirements enforce optimal CSP, including content security policies nonces
** The Open Web Interface for . NET (OWIN) {csp-nonces-owin}[can be used for a simple implementation].

> 

Reviewer 2: What we have in this section is not mature enough in my opinion:
- It's lacking "in practice" advice to enable CSP
- It's not explaining the benefit and limitations of CSP

I would suggest removing it for now and to provide additional content late.

== How to fix it?

The following code is vulnerable to Cross-Site Scripting because auto-escaping of special HTML characters has been disabled.

> The recommended way to fix this code is to move the HTML content to the template and to only inject the dynamic value. Therefore, no need to disable auto-escaping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended way to fix this code is to move the HTML content to the template and to only inject the dynamic value. Therefore, it is not necessary to disable auto-escaping.
```
